So let's get a single recipe on the recipe detail page. Now to get it,
we need the recipeId right
because in get recipes, we do require the ID.
Now conveniently, we get that ID as a dynamic segment on our path here.
So on recipe detail page, we just need to extract that and for this, we can use a default Angular strategy
where we get information about the activated route, activated route.
You do inject this from @angular/router is where you need to import the activated route
and this is an object which you can use in ngOnInit to then have a look at your param map which
is a complex name but which in the end means a map of all the parameters
this route receives and parameters are these dynamic URL segments.
Now this is not an object with all these segments,
instead it's a so-called observable. Now observables are a concept heavily embraced by Angular as you
probably know and we'll use it a lot in this course. Attached you find some resources to get you started
with observables in case you've never heard about them, here I do expect you to know the basics about
them, observables are basically objects you can subscribe to to get data, either one-time data like
when you are sending an HTTP request or multiple times if you subscribe to something which emits
new data every X seconds or whenever a user clicks somewhere or something like this.
This observable here will emit new data whenever our dynamic segments change, even if we are still on
the same page
but this somehow change because we have a button that changes them. In subscribe, we pass in a function
that will execute when we receive new data and that function will get a param object and this now
actually is the object where we can retrieve our parameters from.
So first of all, I can check if this param map does not have recipeId as a parameter. It should have
because we set it up here,
recipeId
but if it somehow wouldn't have it which is very unlikely and unrealistic but if it wouldn't have it,
then we want to redirect the user here, we want to make sure the user leaves the page here and I'll come
back to how we can go back programmatically in a second, I will also return here so that no other executes
runs after this. If however we make it after this check here, which we should in most cases,
so we do have a recipeId, we can extract that.
So the recipeId can be extracted from the param map with
get and then the name of the parameter.
Now obviously, the name here and here but not this one but string names here have to match the name you
set up in your routing configuration, without the colon but the part after the colon,
this has to match.
So now I'm extracting my ID here and now we can use the service to load it.
So for this, we need to inject our recipe service, here, recipes service like this,
you need to import that recipes service type from the recipe service file up there and with it injected,
there
I can now reach out to my recipes service, get my recipe and pass that recipeId I extracted as
an argument.
Now this will return a single recipe and to use it in the template, we need to store it in a property
of our class here,
so I'll name this loaded recipe, you can name it whatever you want and it will be of type recipe
and it is a good pattern, a good practice to clearly state the type an object will hold.
So here I say that this will actually be a recipe or null
but initially it's undefined but thereafter once there is data in it, it should be of type recipe
and for that you need to import recipe from your recipe model. So loaded recipe is now where I can store
this recipe I'm retrieving here, like this
and now we can access the loaded recipe data in the template of course.
In the template of the recipe detail page,
I want to output the image and for that,
I'll remove the padding here and I can simply add ion-img and bind its source to my loaded recipe
image
URL. And below the image here, let me also wrap this into the ion-grid actually to control the
size of that, so here I have my ion-column and we'll see how we adjust it later, for now I'll just wrap
it in there.
Below that in a new ion-row, in a new ion-column, you always need to have a column in your rows, there
I want to have a h1 tag with the title, so I'll use string interpolation here and then access loaded recipe
title and if we have a look at the recipe model, then we also have the ingredients.
It would be nice to output these as well and which better component to use
than an ion-list.
So in a new row and column, I'll add my ion-list here and in there again, we can use ion-item with
ngFor to go through all the ingredients.
So I'll add a loop here,
let ig for ingredient
of loaded recipe ingredients, this loops through all the ingredients and I simply output the ingredient
name here.
ig refers to an element in ingredients and ingredients is just an array of strings, so we can directly
output that here.
Okay nice, so this should work,
now let's have a look.
If it works, remember the IDs of our recipes are r1 and r2 and therefore if I manually added the route
here in the app and load /recipes/r1, we should load recipe 1
and here it is,
doesn't look too bad,
we can do something about the styling but it doesn't look too shabby. Now I actually want to make sure
that my title up there doesn't say recipe detail but actually shows the name of the recipe that was
loaded.
So here, I will output loaded recipe title with string interpolation,
you can do this up here too, not just in the content,
of course you can use the loaded recipe anywhere in this Angular component and that should be a good
first step
and I also want to give my toolbar here a color of primary,
also by the way in the recipes page. And later in the styling and theming module, I'll also show you how
you can generally set all backgrounds of all toolbars to this primary color instead of having to add
this manually to every toolbar
but for now, we'll do it manually and as this app now reloads,
this doesn't look too bad.
Now let's also center schnitzel here and make sure that our image here, this column in which it is has
no padding
and for that you can go back to the recipe detail page and on the h1 tag, we can center this with the
CSS utility attribute text center which you can learn more about in the official docs of course on Ionic
framework, under developers UI components,
if you go to the guide and then there under layout, CSS utilities, there you find all these utility
attributes you can add and I don't just want to center the text. On this column which has my image,
I also don't want to have padding around it,
so on the column we can add no padding actually and that is something you can also learn when you dive
into the official grid
documentation. This reloads the page, it reduces the padding but if we inspect it, there still is a little
bit of padding around the entire grid,
well for that, let's copy no padding and add it to the entire grid as well
and now, this is gone.
I'm quite happy with that progress but entering the URL by hand is not really how we want our users
to work with our app, right?
So how can we make sure that when we tap this, we go to the second page?